---
layout: assignment-two-column
title: Project Proposal
abbreviation: P1
type: project
due_date: 2021-02-07
ordering: 1
draft: 1
---

<style>
    td:nth-child(2), th:nth-child(2)  {
        min-width: 100px;
    }
</style>

During the last five weeks of the course, you will be designing and implementing a final project of your choosing. The parameters of the project are described in detail in the [final project guidelines](../project-description).


## Instructions
This group proposal is similar to the 3-slide brainstorm you did for Lab 3, but a bit more detailed, and should incorporate the ideas of your entire group. Please answer each of the questions below:

### 1. Problem & Motivation
Describe the problem that your project would tackle, and the motivation for why that problem is important and interesting. This paragraph should discuss the current state of the world (the problem), as well as how and why the world would be better if some aspect of this problem were addressed (the goal). You should convince the reader that this is a worthwhile problem space to explore. When writing the section, please ensure that you've:

* Identified an actual problem
* Given sufficient detail so that your reader can actually understand why the problem is a problem
*  Identified a clear goal / set of goals that you're hoping to address

### 2. Analysis of Related Work
This section should give your reader a lay of the land, including:

* The current status quo: how are people currently accomplishing the tasks you're hoping to support?
* How have others tried to innovate in this area (consider both "technical" and "non-technical" innovations) and what solutions currently exist?
* What are the strengths and limitations of existing approaches?

### 3. Design Hypothesis
Describe your current idea for addressing the problem (i.e. your app idea). Remember, this is only a first guess at a possible solution. The point of this project is to go through a process of validating your design ideas and assumptions. Be very clear about how your idea could address the problem described in part 1.

### 4. Describe the interactions you're hoping to support
Given the overarching goal of your system, list between 3-5 finer-grained interactions that you will focus on in this class. For instance, if your're creating something like Yelp (a massive system), you might choose to scope your project to a few interactions that most interest you and your team. For instance: 

* A way for a restaurant owner to promote their restaurant.
* A way for a customer to find a restaurant that matches their criteria.
* A way for a customer to review a restaurant.

Here, you should be clear about which parts of the system you will be designing and testing.

### 5. FROM LAST WINTER [Should this be incorporated?]
#### SCENARIOS
A description of current scenarios as well as ones you hope to support in your future design. One paragraph for each scenario should be enough. Aim to document between 4-8 current and future scenarios. Some things to keep in mind:

1. Each scenario should incorporate one of your personas. In other words, you need to make it clear which user (i.e. persona) your scenario pertains to.
2. Each scenario should communicate the user’s goal, and the steps they need to accomplish to reach that goal, but should not explain how they would do it in your app (do not talk about the solution yet). NO SOLUTIONS: Keep it generic. You will shift into solution mode next week.

Here are some examples of some ways that you can communicate a scenario:

* @CanvasFlip (Medium)
* Usability.gov
* Lecture slides from Wed, 1/29

#### FEATURES
Describe the features that your system will need to support in order to account for / address the actions described in the scenarios. Break your features into two categories:

* delighters
* essential features: Ones that must be supported to meet your users’ needs. These are features that you will definitely need to implement by the end of the quarter.
* nice-to-haves: Ones that could allow your system to more effectively support your users’ needs, for example by increasing efficiency or making the user experience more enjoyable.

Each feature should describe an interaction or action that your system should support, but should not mention specific solutions yet. Remember Norman’s Paradox of Technology (to be covered in class on Monday): supporting too many features can make a system unusable, so think carefully about your project scope and choose wisely.

### 6. Describe the resources that your system will be using
* TODO: see Bob's Resource Description stuff..

### 7. Are you planning to integrate ML functionality into your system?
Not all data-intensive problems are best solved through ML, but you are encouraged to think through whether and how various ML methods might be brought to bear on the problem. Please answer the following questions:

* Are you planning to use any ML methods in your system (yes / no)?
* If so, how do you see ML supporting the interactions listed above? Note that you don't have to implement the ML piece, but you do want to come up with ways of testing the effectiveness of an ML-powered interaction.

### 8. What resources / tutorials will you be using to help you?
Given your design and implementing plans, what resources (e.g. APIs, libraries, tutorials, design tools, etc.) will you be using to help you make progress on your ideas? Things to include in this section:
* A plan for learning: if you don't yet know how to do the thing you want to do, do you have a reasonable plan for learning more?
* A rough sketch of how you will go about 

### 9. What will you have made when you’re done? 
Be specific (# of screens, description of basic functionality). You will break this down into steps below.



### 10. What will your first deliverable be?
Just give a high-level description of the first thing...


### 11. What will your second deliverable be(your best guess)?
While the details will likely change, give it your best guess. 



### 12. What will your third deliverable be (your best guess)?
While the details will likely change, give it your best guess. 







## Rubric
You will be assessed based on evidence that you put some time and effort into thinking about what you want to accomplish and what it might take to make it happen. You will be assessed on:

1. Completeness
2. Demonstrated attention and thought to the scope, nature, and breakdown of the tasks.
3. Evidence that you did some legwork to explore what kinds of examples, tutorials, and web resouces are out there.

## What to turn in
Please submit a link to a Google Doc (make sure it’s shared!) or as an uploaded file (e.g. Word Document).