---
layout: assignment-two-column
title: |
    Final Writeup
abbreviation: P6
type: project
due_date: 2021-03-14
ordering: 1 
draft: 1
---



> This assignment consists of three parts. 
>
>{:.spaced}
> 1. Final Report **(10 points)**<br>Your group will make a report, via a README.md file, that describes your group's process. 
2. Final Presentation <strong>(5 points)</strong><br>Your group will give a final presentation during your last studio meeting either March 12th or March 13th.
3. Computer Prototype  **(15 points)**<br>Your group will submit your final computer prototype. 
>
> Details about what to prepare and submit for each part of the final assignment are below.

## 1. Final Report
Please create a final report of your design process, with images. This will largely involve compiling your P1-P7 assignments into a coherent whole, which include:


* **Problem & Related Work (P1)**
   * The problem and why it's important
   * Related work in this space and how your team aimed to improve / build upon existing efforts
* **User Research (P2 & P3)**
   * What you wanted to learn via interviews and observations
   * Your research approach
   * What you learned from your interviews and observations in terms of:
      * user needs & goals (i.e. tasks) your app should support
      * the various users (i.e. personas) you envision using your app 
* **Paper Prototyping (P4)**
   * A screenshot or embedded video clip of your paper prototype
   * How your concept was received by testers, and and usability problems
   * What directions you pursued based on what you learned (resolutions)
* **High-Fidelity Prototyping (P5, P6, & P7)**
   * A description of the tasks you decided to support. This should include screenshots of your app, with an explanation of how the various app features were intended to support the task.
   * A description of your three components you chose to implement
* **Reflection**
   * What you managed to accomplish in the time you had
   * What the next steps of your app would be if you had more time

* **Links**
   * A link to your team's repository
   * A link to a working version of your prototype (or a video of it)
   * Instructions for running your app (including how your prototype is best viewed).

### Report Guidelines
1. Created your report as a **README.md** file using markdown, and posted it to GitHub.
2. Ensure that your report is concise: you will use as little text as possible to communicate the key ideas for each section. 
3. Use images and screenshots as a way to exemplify your design process.
4. Ensure that the report captures your design process. 
5. Imagine that the audience for this report is someone looking to hire you to do UX/UI research and design (e.g. somewhere like IDEO).

### Rubric (10 Points)

{:.checkbox-list}
* Thoughtfully analysis and discussion of the following: **(6 points)**
   * Relevance/importance of problem statement (1pt)
   * Related work (1pt)
   * Findings from interviews and observations (1pt)
   * Findings from various prototyping iterations (2pts)
   * Reflections: accomplishments, challenges, and next steps (1pt)
* Nice screenshots included, with links to working prototype and repo **(2 point)** 
* Report viewable on GitHub in README.md **(1 point)**
* Report is concise and easy to understand **(1 point)**


## 2. Final Presentation in Studio
In addition to your final report, each of the teams will give a final presentation on the last day of studio. You should use slides (PowerPoint or equivalent) for this presentation; these will be submitted as part of your P8 submission in Canvas. The presentation should be between 5-7 minutes long. It should include the following sections:

{:.spaced}
1. Introduction and problem statement
2. Overview of related work (what other systems have tackled this problem?)
3. Findings from needfinding interviews and observations
4. Overview of representative tasks and project components
5. Findings from testing your prototypes (paper and computer)
6. Demo of your final computer prototype

This presentation is an opportunity to explain the reasoning behind the design decisions that lead to your final prototype, and also to show off your final version to your TA and peers. Please <strong>make sure to practice your presentation</strong> so that it's within the 7-minute time limit. 

<strong>Each team member should speak during the presentation!</strong> You may want to have one team member describe the problem statement and related work, another describe the tasks, features, and components, another describe the lessons learned from prototyping and testing, and another do a demo of the final prototype.

### Rubric (5 Points)

{:.checkbox-list}
* Clear presentation of all key points from final report, including: <strong>(3 points)</strong>
   * Relevance/importance of problem statement
   * Related work
   * Findings from interviews and observations
   * Why their representative tasks and components were appropriate
   * Findings from testing their prototypes (paper and computer)
* Web prototype demo <strong>(1 point)</strong>
   * Highlights the representative tasks and components (okay to focus on only one task/component) 
* All members of team presented <strong>(1 point)</strong>


## 3. Final Computer Prototype
Finally, you will submit your final prototype. To do this, please create a branch in your team's repository called **project_8** and push all the code you want your peer mentor to assess for the final submission to this branch. This computer prototype should:

{:.spaced}
1. Include final implementations to support all of your tasks.
2. Include final implementations to support all of your project components. Each component must meet the minimum requirements described in the Project Components Document (Links to an external site.).
3. Incorporate the feedback you received through your user tests with your peers in studio. The resolutions your proposed in P6 and P7 should be implemented in the final computer prototype.
4. Incorporate the feedback you received from your TA for P5-P7. If your TA highlighted a problem with usability or graphic design in one of your early prototypes, this should be resolved in the final prototype.

### Rubric (15 Points)
The TAs will grade the final computer prototypes using the same criteria as P5-P7. This includes:

{:.checkbox-list}
* Graphic Design **(2pts)**
   * Followed the guidelines for good graphic design
* Overall Usability **(3pts)**
   * Followed the guidelines for good usability
* Component Design **(6 pts)** **(12pts)**
   * All <a class="pj" href="../assignments/components">requirements <i class="fa fa-link"></i></a> for each component were met (6pts)
* Incorporated feedback **(3pts)**
   * Incorporated feedback from user testing / TA comments effectively 


## What to Turn In
1. A link to your **project_8** branch
2. A link to your final **README.md** on GitHub
3. Your slides (either as a link or uploaded to Canvas)
4. Ideally a link to your working prototype on GitHub pages